Politics this week

“Britain started the process of leaving the European Union. Theresa May, the country’s prime minister, officially triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon treaty in a letter hand-delivered to Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council. See here and here. 

Scotland’s devolved parliament voted to request from the British government permission to hold a second independence referendum. However, both Mrs May and Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition, want any poll to be delayed until after Brexit.”

Excerpt From: calibre. “The Economist [Fri, 31 Mar 2017].” 

“Street cred

Demonstrators staged anti-corruption protests in nearly 100 cities across Russia, responding to a call by the opposition leader Aleksei Navalny. The protests focused on the alleged illicit wealth of Dmitry Medvedev, the prime minister. A court sentenced Mr Navalny to 15 days in jail for organising an unauthorised protest. See article. 

German authorities said they were investigating whether Turkey’s intelligence services had spied on Turkish-German citizens whom they suspected of ”

Excerpt From: calibre. “The Economist [Fri, 31 Mar 2017].” 

“allegiance to the exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen. Turkey believes Mr Gulen was behind an attempted coup to overthrow its government last July, and has jailed over 40,000 people in ongoing purges. Germany said any foreign espionage on its soil would be a criminal offence.

Boyko Borisov and his pro-European, centre-right GERB party came first in Bulgaria’s parliamentary elections with 33% of the vote. The win paves the way for Mr Borisov to serve a third term as prime minister. The Socialists, who lean towards Russia, came second with 27% of the vote.

The Hungarian government proposed new higher education laws which the Central European University (CEU) in Budapest said would force it to close. The CEU, one of the country’s top universities, was founded by the liberal Hungarian-born billionaire George Soros. Hungary’s nationalist prime minister, Viktor Orban, who says he wants his country to become an “illiberal democracy”, has a long-standing feud with Mr Soros.

To jaw-jaw

Over the objections of Venezuela’s socialist government, members of the Organisation of American States held a debate on the country’s humanitarian crisis and the government’s assault on its democracy. The group stopped short of suspending Venezuela and[…]”

Excerpt From: calibre. “The Economist [Fri, 31 Mar 2017].” iBooks. 

